----
title: Ring Theory
modified: 2025-08-31
meta_description: "In the first half of this post I'll give some brief motivation for considering Omega-spectra that doesn't rely on many prerequisites, as something like a space but with both positive and negative homotopy groups. In the second part of the post I'll try to describe how we use the theory of model categories to understand spectra, and why we need to think about sequential spectra as well as Omega-spectra."
tags: Algebra
prerequisites: Algebra (counting principles)
----

## Introduction

Same layout at 493. OH:

-   Monday 1-2pm

-   Wednesday 3-4pm

-   Friday 3-4pm

DEFINITION Ring A **ring** is a nonempty set $R$ with two binary
operations $( + , \times )$.

-   $\langle R, + \rangle$ is an abelian group.

-   $\times$ is commutative.

We assume all rings commute.

## Ideals

DEFINITION \[Ideal\] An **ideal** is a set $I \subseteq R$ that is
closed under $+$.

Recall that all Ideals in $\mathbb{Z}$ are of the form $n{\mathbb{Z}}$,
so $\mathbb{Z}$ is principal. This implies that $\gcd$'s exist.

<!--more-->

DEFINITION \[Unit\] A **unit** is an element $x \in R$ such that
$\exists y \in R$ so $xy = 1$. \] So
$U({\mathbb{Z}}) = \left\{ \pm 1 \right\}$. Take
$R = {\mathbb{Z}}\lbrack i\rbrack$ the set of Gaussian integers. Then
$U(R) = \left\{ \pm 1, \pm i \right\}$.

DEFINITION \[Field\] A **field** is a ring $K$ where every nonzero
element is a unit and $$1 \neq 0$$. The only ideals in $K$ are
$\left\{ 0 \right\}$ and $K$. This follows since if
$I \neq \left\{ 0 \right\}$ then there is a nonzero $x \in I$ and
$x^{- 1}x = 1$ which means that $1 \in I \Rightarrow I = K$. The
converse is also true. If $R$ is a nonzero ring whose only ideals are
$\left\{ 0 \right\}$ and $R$. Then
$\left\{ 0 \right\} \subset \langle x\rangle \subseteq R$ is the
principal ideal generated by $x$. So
$\langle x\rangle = R = \langle 1\rangle$ so $1 = xy$ for some $y \in R$
and therefore $x$ is a unit.

The way to observe the complexity of a ring is its structure of ideals.
Let $K$ be a field and $R = K\lbrack x\rbrack$. Then the ideals in $R$
are given by the division algorithm (since $K$ is a field). The division
algorithm in $K\lbrack x\rbrack$ says
$\forall f(x),g(x) \in K\lbrack x\rbrack$ where $g(x) \neq 0$ then
$\exists!q(x),r(x)$ such that $$f(x) = q(x)g(x) + r(x)$$ where $r(x)$ is
zero or $\deg r(x) < \deg g(x)$.

Now take $I \subseteq K\lbrack x\rbrack$. If $I = 0$ we are done. If
$I \neq 0$ then we can choose $g(x) \in I$ of minimal degree and we
claim $I = (g)$ the principal ideal generated by $g$. Then $f \in I$ and
$f = qg + r$ which means (since $g,f \in I$)
$r = 0 \Rightarrow f \in (g)$.

Now we can speak of the $\gcd$ of two polynomials over $K$.
